==강직성척추염|PRO==
Ankylosing Spondylitis
ByKinanah Yaseen, MD, Cleveland Clinic
Reviewed ByBrian F. Mandell, MD, PhD, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine at Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised May 2026
Ankylosing spondylitis is the prototypical spondyloarthropathy and a systemic
disorder characterized by inflammation of the axial skeleton, large peripheral
joints, and digits; nocturnal back pain; morning back stiffness; accentuated
kyphosis; constitutional symptoms; aortitis; cardiac conduction abnormalities;
and anterior uveitis. Diagnosis requires showing sacroiliitis on imaging or spine
inflammation using MRI. Treatment is with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs (NSAIDs), tumor necrosis factor inhibitors, interleukin-17 (IL-17)
inhibitors, or Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors, as well as physical measures that
maintain joint flexibility.
Ankylosing spondylitis is 3 times more frequent in men than in women and begins most often between
ages 20 and 40. It is 10 to 20 times more common among ﬁrst-degree relatives of patients with
ankylosing spondylitis than in the general population. The human leukocyte antigen B27 (HLA-B27 ) allele
is present in 90% of White patients with ankylosing spondylitis ( 1), but it is also present in up to 10% of
the general population depending on ethnicity. The risk of ankylosing spondylitis in ﬁrst-degree relatives
with the HLA-B27  allele is approximately 20%. Increased prevalence of HLA-B27  in White people or HLA-
B7 in Black people supports a genetic predisposition. However, the concordance rate in identical twins is
only approximately 50%, suggesting that environmental factors contribute.
Reference
1. Khan MA, Braun WE, Kushner I, et al . HLA B27 in Ankylosing Spondylitis: Diﬀerences in
Frequency and Relative Risk in American Blacks a

==강직성척추염|CON==
Ankylosing Spondylitis
ByKinanah Yaseen, MD, Cleveland Clinic
Reviewed/Revised May 2026
Ankylosing spondylitis is a spondyloarthritis characterized by inflammation of the spine (spondylitis), large joints, and fingers
and toes, resulting in stiffness and pain.
Prolonged joint pain, morning back stiﬀness, and eye inﬂammation are common.
The diagnosis is based on symptoms, x-rays, and established criteria.
Nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs and sometimes sulfasalazine  or methotrexate  can help relieve the arthritis in limbs.
Medications that inhibit tumor necrosis factor and some other biologic agents are very eﬀective for spine and limb arthritis.
Ankylosing spondylitis is 3 times more common among men than women, developing most commonly between the ages of 20 and 40. The cause of ankylosing
spondylitis is not known, but the disease tends to run in families, indicating that genetics plays a role. Ankylosing spondylitis is 10 to 20 times more common
among people whose parents or siblings have it. The HLA-B27  gene is present in 90% of White people who have ankylosing spondylitis, but it is also present in
up to 10% of the general population depending on ethnicity. However, having the HLA-B27  gene does not mean that a person has or will develop ankylosing
spondylitis. For example, only 50% of identical twins both have the disorder, which suggests that unknown environmental factors also may be involved.
Ankylosing Spondylitis
Symptoms of Ankylosing Spondylitis
In ankylosing spondylitis, mild to moderate ﬂare-ups of inﬂammation may alternate with periods of almost no symptoms.
The most common symptom is
Back pain
Back pain varies in intensity from one episode to another and from one person to another. Pain is often worse during the night and in the morning. Early
morning

==재생불량성빈혈|PRO==
Aplastic Anemia
(Hypoplastic Anemia)
ByGloria F. Gerber, MD, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Division of Hematology
Reviewed ByAshkan Emadi, MD, PhD, West Virginia University School of Medicine, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center
Reviewed/Revised Mar 2025 | Modified Apr 2026
Aplastic anemia is a disorder of the hematopoietic stem cell that results in a
loss of blood cell precursors, hypoplasia or aplasia of bone marrow, and
cytopenias in two or more cell lines (red blood cells, white blood cells, and/or
platelets). Symptoms result from anemia, thrombocytopenia (petechiae,
bleeding), or leukopenia (infections). Diagnosis requires demonstration of
peripheral pancytopenia and a bone marrow biopsy revealing a hypocellular
marrow. Treatment usually involves immunosuppression with equine
antithymocyte globulin and cyclosporine, or bone marrow transplantation.
(See also Overview of Decreased Erythropoiesis .)
The term aplastic anemia commonly implies a panhypoplasia of the bone marrow with cytopenias in at
least two hematopoietic lineages. In contrast, pure red blood cell (RBC) aplasia  is restricted to the
erythroid cell line.
Etiology of Aplastic Anemia
True aplastic anemia  (most common in adolescents and young adults) is idiopathic in approximately
half of cases. Recognized causes are
Chemicals (eg, benzene, inorganic arsenic)
Medications (eg, antineoplastic drugs, antibiotics, nonsteroidal anti-inﬂammatory drugs,
antiseizure medications, acetazolamide , gold salts, penicillamine , quinacrine) or toxins
Hepatitis (seronegative for hepatitis viruses)
Pregnancy
Radiation
Viruses (Epstein-Barr virus and cytomegalovirus)
Inherited disorders of bone marrow failure due to genetic mutations (eg, Fanconi anemia ,
Shwachman-Diamond syndrome, dyskeratosis congenita)MSD MANUAL
P

==재생불량성빈혈|CON==
Aplastic Anemia
(Hypoplastic Anemia)
ByGloria F. Gerber, MD, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Division of Hematology
Reviewed/Revised Apr 2026
Aplastic anemia is a disorder in which the cells of the bone marrow that
develop into mature blood cells are destroyed, leading to low numbers of red
blood cells, white blood cells, and/or platelets.
When the bone marrow cells (stem cells) that develop into mature blood cells and platelets are
damaged or destroyed, the bone marrow can shut down. This bone marrow failure is called aplastic
anemia. The bone marrow failure leads to too few red blood cells ( anemia ), too few white blood cells
(leukopenia ), and too few platelets ( thrombocytopenia ).
The term aplastic anemia is used to refer to anemia that occurs when production of most or all types of
blood cells is suppressed. If production of only red blood cells is suppressed, the disorder is called pure
red blood cell aplasia.
When the cause of aplastic anemia cannot be diagnosed (called idiopathic aplastic anemia), the cause is
likely an autoimmune disorder , in which the immune system suppresses bone marrow stem cells.
Other causes include:
Infection with viruses such as parvovirus (causes only pure red blood cell aplasia), Epstein
Barr virus , or cytomegalovirus
Radiation exposure
Toxins (such as benzene)
Chemotherapy agents and other medications (such as chloramphenicol)
Pregnancy
Hepatitis
Symptoms of Aplastic Anemia
Symptoms of aplastic anemia usually develop slowly over weeks to months.MSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Copyright © 2026 Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA and its aﬃliates. All rights reserved.The anemia causes fatigue, weakness, and paleness. The leukopenia causes increased susceptibility to
infection. The thrombocytopenia causes easy bruising and bleeding.
Dia

==충수염|PRO==
Overview of AppendicitisAppendicitis
ByParswa Ansari, MD, Hofstra Northwell-Lenox Hill Hospital, New York
Reviewed ByMinhhuyen Nguyen, MD, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Temple University
Reviewed/Revised Jul 2024
Appendicitis is acute inflammation of the vermiform appendix, typically
resulting in abdominal pain, anorexia, and abdominal tenderness. Diagnosis is
clinical, often supplemented by CT or ultrasound. Treatment is surgical removal
of the appendix.
(See also Acute Abdominal Pain .)
In the United States, acute appendicitis is the most common cause of acute abdominal pain requiring
surgery. Over 5% of the population develops appendicitis at some point ( 1). It most commonly occurs in
adolescence and in the 20s but may occur at any age.
Other conditions aﬀecting the appendix include carcinoids, cancer, villous adenomas, and diverticula.
The appendix may also be aﬀected by Crohn disease  or ulcerative colitis  with pancolitis ( inﬂammatory
bowel disease ).
VIDEOMSD MANUAL
Professional Version General reference
1. Addiss DG, Shaﬀer N, Fowler BS, Tauxe RV . The epidemiology of appendicitis and appendectomy
in the United States.  Am J Epidemiol  1990;132(5):910-925. doi:10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a115734
Etiology of Appendicitis
Appendicitis is thought to result from obstruction of the appendiceal lumen, typically by lymphoid
hyperplasia but occasionally by a fecalith, foreign body, tumor, or even worms. The obstruction leads to
distention, bacterial overgrowth, ischemia, and inﬂammation. If untreated, necrosis, gangrene, and
perforation occur. If the perforation is contained by the omentum, an appendiceal abscess results.
Symptoms and Signs of Appendicitis
The classic acute appendicitis symptoms are
Epigastric or periumbilical pain followed by brief nausea, vomiting, and an

==충수염|CON==
Appendicitis
ByParswa Ansari, MD, Hofstra Northwell-Lenox Hill Hospital, New York
Reviewed/Revised Jul 2024 | Modified May 2026
Appendicitis is inflammation and infection of the appendix.
Often a blockage inside the appendix causes the appendix to become inﬂamed and
infected.
Abdominal pain, nausea, and fever are common.
Exploratory surgery or an imaging test, such as computed tomography or ultrasonography,
is done.
Treatment involves surgery to remove the appendix and antibiotics to treat the infection.
(See also Acute Abdominal Pain .)
The appendix is a small ﬁnger-shaped tube projecting from the large intestine near the point where it
joins the small intestine. The appendix may have some immune function, but it is not an essential
organ.MSD MANUAL
Consumer Version The Digestive System
Appendicitis is the most common cause of sudden, severe abdominal pain and abdominal surgery in
the United States. Over 5% of the population develops appendicitis at some point. Appendicitis most
commonly occurs during adolescence and in the 20s but may occur at any age. Overview of Appendicitis
Hide Details
Appendicitis (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9amif1DQMc) by Osmosis (https://open.osmosis.org/) is
licensed under CC-BY-SA 4.0 (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
Digestive System
Causes of Appendicitis
The cause of appendicitis is not fully understood. However, in most cases, a blockage inside the
appendix probably starts a process. The blockage may be from a small, hard piece of stool (fecalith), a
foreign body, tumor, or, rarely, even worms. As a result of the blockage, the appendix becomes
inﬂamed and infected. If inﬂammation continues without treatment, the appendix can rupture.
A ruptured appendix may cause a pus-ﬁlled pocket of infection ( abscess ) to form. 

==COVID-19|PRO==
COVID-19
(SARS-CoV-2 Infection)
BySophie Katz, MD, MPH, Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Reviewed ByBrenda L. Tesini, MD, University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry
Reviewed/Revised Jul 2024 | Modified Sept 2025
COVID-19 is a respiratory illness caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2.
Infection may be asymptomatic or have symptoms ranging from mild upper
respiratory symptoms to acute respiratory failure and death. COVID-19 can
involve multiple organ systems (eg, cardiac, renal, neurologic, coagulation).
Prevention is by vaccination and infection control precautions (eg, face masks,
handwashing, social distancing, isolation of infected individuals). Diagnosis is by
antigen or PCR (polymerase chain reaction) testing of upper or lower
respiratory secretions. Treatment is with supportive care, antiviral medications,
or corticosteroids.
SARS-CoV-2
COVID-19 was ﬁrst reported in late 2019 in Wuhan, China and declared a pandemic by the World Health
Organization (WHO) in March 2020. It is caused by SARS-CoV-2, a coronavirus discovered in 2019. SARS-
CoV-2 infection causes a spectrum of severity of disease, from asymptomatic to acute respiratory failure
and death. Risk factors for severe disease include older age, immunocompromise, comorbidities (eg,
diabetes, chronic kidney disease), and pregnancy. Vaccines  have shown to be somewhat eﬀective in
preventing transmission and very eﬀective in preventing severe disease and mortality.
For current information on the number of cases and fatalities, see the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC): COVID Data Tracker  and the WHO Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard .
3D MODELMSD MANUAL
Professional Version Transmission of COVID-19
SARS-CoV-2 spreads by close person-to-person contact, mainly via respiratory droplets 

==COVID-19|CON==
COVID-19
(Coronavirus Disease 2019; COVID)
BySophie Katz, MD, MPH, Vanderbilt University Medical Center
Reviewed/Revised Jul 2024 | Modified Apr 2025
COVID-19 is an acute respiratory illness that can be mild or severe and is caused
by a coronavirus named SARS-CoV-2.
Symptoms of COVID-19 vary signiﬁcantly.
Two types of tests can be used to diagnose a COVID-19 infection.
Measures should be taken to prevent infection, particularly vaccination.
Treatment of COVID-19 depends on how severe the illness is and the likelihood that the
person will develop severe disease.
COVID-19 Virus
COVID-19 was ﬁrst reported in late 2019 and has since spread extensively worldwide. For current
information on the number of cases and deaths, see the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention:
COVID Data Tracker  and the World Health Organization Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard .
The coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is called SARS-CoV-2. It is related to but slightly diﬀerent from the
coronavirus that causes SARS .
Social determinants of health (conditions in the places where people are born, live, learn, work, and
play) impact a wide range of health risks and outcomes, such as exposure to SARS-CoV-2 infection,
severe COVID-19, and death, as well as access to testing, vaccination, and treatment. In the United
3D MODELMSD MANUAL
Consumer Version States, COVID-19 case, hospitalization and death rates were higher during the height of the pandemic in
some racial and ethnic minority groups, including among people who are Black, Hispanic or Latino,
American Indian, and Alaska Native.
Most viruses, including the SARS-CoV-2 virus, evolve and new variants of the virus emerge. Variants with
the potential to be more transmissible, more likely to cause severe disease, or that are harder to treat
or detect a

==담석증|PRO==
Cholelithiasis
ByYedidya Saiman, MD, PhD, Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University
Reviewed ByMinhhuyen Nguyen, MD, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Temple University
Reviewed/Revised Oct 2025 | Modified Feb 2026
Cholelithiasis is the presence of one or more gallstones (calculi) in the
gallbladder. Gallstones are typically asymptomatic. The most common
symptom is biliary colic; gallstones do not cause dyspepsia or lead to fat
malabsorption. More serious complications include cholecystitis; biliary tract
obstruction (by stones in the bile ducts [choledocholithiasis]), sometimes with
infection (cholangitis); and gallstone pancreatitis. Diagnosis is usually by
ultrasound. Symptomatic cholelithiasis is treated with cholecystectomy;
asymptomatic cholelithiasis is typically not treated.
(See also Overview of Biliary Function .)
Most disorders of the biliary tract result from gallstones. Risk factors for cholelithiasis include ( 1–4):
Female sex
Obesity (particularly in men)
Older age
Physical inactivity
Insulin  resistance
Lipid abnormalities
Atherosclerotic heart disease
Family history of cholelithiasis
In the United States, gallstone prevalence is estimated at 14% of the population over 20 years of age,
having doubled in the 3 decades between 1988 and 2020. In some northern European countries, the
prevalence may be as high as approximately 20% ( 5). Prevalence generally increases with age and may
plateau in the sixth decade of life.
General references
1. Colvin HS, Kimura T, Iso H, et al . Risk Factors for Gallstones and Cholecystectomy: A Large-Scale
Population-Based Prospective Cohort Study in Japan.  Dig Dis.  2022;40(3):385-393.MSD MANUAL
Professional Version Overview of Gallstonesdoi:10.1159/000517270
2. Shabanzadeh DM, Sørensen LT, Jørgensen T . Determinants for galls

==담석증|CON==
BileGallstones
(Cholelithiasis)
ByYedidya Saiman, MD, PhD, Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University
Reviewed/Revised Oct 2025 | Modified May 2026
Gallstones are collections of solid material (predominantly crystals of
cholesterol) in the gallbladder.
The liver can secrete too much cholesterol, which is carried with bile to the gallbladder,
where the excess cholesterol forms solid particles and accumulates.
Gallstones sometimes cause upper abdominal pain that can last for hours.
Ultrasound is quite accurate in detecting gallstones.
If gallstones cause recurrent pain or other problems, the gallbladder is removed.
The gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped sac located beneath the liver. It stores bile, a ﬂuid that is
produced by the liver and aids in digestion. When bile is needed, such as after a person eats, the
gallbladder contracts, pushing bile through the bile ducts into the small intestine. (See also Overview of
Gallbladder and Bile Duct Disorders  and ﬁgure View of the Liver and Gallbladder .)
VIDEOMSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Most disorders of the gallbladder and bile ducts result from gallstones. The risk factors for gallstones
include the following:
Female sex
Older age
Obesity  (particularly in men)
Physical inactivity
Diabetes and prediabetes
Lipid abnormalities  like high cholesterol
Atherosclerotic heart disease
A family history of gallstones
In the United States, it is estimated that 14% of people over 20 years of age have gallstones.
Stones in the gallbladder (also called cholelithiasis) sometimes pass into the bile ducts, or stones may
form in the bile ducts. Stones in the bile ducts are called choledocholithiasis. These stones sometimes
block a bile duct.
Most gallstones do not cause symptoms. But if symptoms or other problems occur, treatment is
nec

==만성췌장염|PRO==
Chronic Pancreatitis
ByMichael Bartel, MD, PhD, Fairfax, VA
Reviewed ByMinhhuyen Nguyen, MD, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Temple University
Reviewed/Revised Mar 2024 | Modified Dec 2025
Chronic pancreatitis is persistent inflammation of the pancreas that results in
permanent structural damage with fibrosis and ductal strictures, followed by a
decline in exocrine and endocrine function (pancreatic insufficiency). Heavy
alcohol consumption and smoking cigarettes are two of the major risk factors.
Abdominal pain is the predominant symptom in most patients. Diagnosis is
usually made by imaging studies and pancreatic function testing. Treatment
mainly includes pain control and management of pancreatic insufficiency.
(See also Overview of Pancreatitis  and Acute Pancreatitis .)
Fibrosis caused by inﬂammation and recurrent pancreatic injury is the hallmark of chronic pancreatitis
but needs to be distinguished from ﬁbrosis caused by the aging process and diabetic pancreatopathy.
Chronic pancreatitis can cause calciﬁcation of the pancreatic parenchyma, formation of intraductal
stones, or both as well as pancreatic atrophy.
Pathogenesis of Chronic Pancreatitis
The pathogenesis of chronic pancreatitis is not well understood. Several mechanisms have been
proposed.
The stone and duct obstruction theory  proposes that disease is due to ductal obstruction caused by
formation of protein-rich plugs as a result of protein–bicarbonate imbalance for unknown reasons.
These plugs may calcify and eventually form stones within the pancreatic ducts. If obstruction is chronic,
persistent inﬂammation leads to ﬁbrosis, pancreatic ductal distortion, strictures, and atrophy. After
several years, progressive ﬁbrosis and atrophy lead to loss of exocrine and endocrine function.
The necrosis–ﬁbrosis hypothe

==만성췌장염|CON==
MSD MANUAL
Consumer Version The PancreasChronic Pancreatitis
ByMichael Bartel, MD, PhD, Fairfax, VA
Reviewed/Revised Mar 2024
Chronic pancreatitis is long-standing inflammation of the pancreas that results
in irreversible deterioration of the structure and function of the pancreas.
Heavy alcohol use and cigarette smoking are 2 major causes of chronic pancreatitis.
Abdominal pain may be persistent or come and go.
The diagnosis is based on the symptoms, a history of recurring acute pancreatitis and
alcohol use, imaging tests, and pancreatic function tests.
Treatment involves avoiding alcohol and cigarettes, modifying the diet, taking pancreatic
enzyme supplements, and measures to relieve the pain.
(See also Overview of Pancreatitis .)
The pancreas  is an organ in the upper abdomen that produces the hormone insulin  and secretes
pancreatic ﬂuid through the pancreatic duct into the ﬁrst part of the small intestine (duodenum). This
pancreatic ﬂuid contains digestive enzymes that help digest food.
In acute pancreatitis , inﬂammation develops quickly and subsides within a few days to a few weeks.
In chronic pancreatitis, inﬂammation is progressive and long-standing, which causes permanent
damage and scarring (ﬁbrosis) to the pancreas. This ﬁbrosis is the hallmark of chronic pancreatitis. As
VIDEO chronic pancreatitis progresses, cells that secrete the digestive enzymes in the pancreatic ﬂuid are
slowly destroyed over time.
Locating the Pancreas
Causes of Chronic Pancreatitis
In the United States, about half of the cases of chronic pancreatitis are due to heavy alcohol
consumption. People who smoke cigarettes also are at increased risk of developing chronic pancreatitis.
Less common causes of chronic pancreatitis include genetic disorders, such as cystic ﬁbrosis , hereditary
pa

==자궁내막증|PRO==
Endometriosis
ByJames H. Liu, MD, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine
Reviewed ByOluwatosin Goje, MD, MSCR, Cleveland Clinic, Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised Apr 2024
In endometriosis, functioning endometrial cells are implanted in the pelvis
outside the uterine cavity. Symptoms depend on location of the implants. The
classic triad of symptoms is dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and infertility, but
symptoms may also include dysuria and dyschezia. Severity of symptoms is not
related to disease stage. Diagnosis is by direct visualization and sometimes
biopsy, usually via laparoscopy. Imaging studies (transvaginal ultrasound, MRI)
are useful in diagnosing more advanced cases (eg, endometriosis involving the
ovary [endometrioma]). Treatments include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs, medications to suppress ovarian function and endometrial tissue
growth, surgical ablation and excision of endometriotic implants, and, if disease
is severe and no childbearing is planned, hysterectomy alone or hysterectomy
with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.
Endometriosis is usually conﬁned to the peritoneal or serosal surfaces of pelvic organs, commonly the
ovaries, broad ligaments, posterior cul-de-sac, uterosacral ligaments, and peritoneum.
Less common sites include the fallopian tubes, rectovaginal septum, and serosal surfaces of the small
and large intestines, ureters, bladder, vagina, cervix, surgical scars, and, more rarely, the lung, pleura,
and pericardium.
Bleeding from peritoneal implants is thought to initiate sterile inﬂammation, followed by ﬁbrin
deposition, adhesion formation, and, eventually, scarring.
Prevalences of endometriosis in a meta-analysis of 17 studies were ( 1)
18% in reproductive-aged women
31% in inferti

==자궁내막증|CON==
Endometriosis
ByJames H. Liu, MD, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine
Reviewed/Revised Apr 2024 | Modified Jan 2026
In endometriosis, patches of endometrial tissue—normally occurring only in the
lining of the uterus (endometrium)—appear outside the uterus.
It is unknown why endometrial tissue becomes misplaced outside the uterus.
Endometriosis can impair fertility and cause pain (particularly before and during menstrual
periods and during sexual intercourse), but it may cause no symptoms.
Usually, doctors check for endometrial tissue by inserting a thin viewing tube through a
small incision near the navel (laparoscopy).
Medications are used to relieve pain and to slow the growth of the misplaced tissue.
Surgery may be done to remove the misplaced endometrial tissue and sometimes to
remove the uterus and the ovaries.MSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Endometriosis: Misplaced Tissue
In endometriosis, small or large patches of endometrial tissue, which is usually located only in
the lining of the uterus (endometrium), appear in other parts of the body. How and why the
tissue appears in other locations is unclear.
Common locations of misplaced endometrial tissue include the ovaries and ligaments
supporting the uterus and, less commonly, the fallopian tubes. But the misplaced tissue may
also appear in other locations in the pelvis and abdomen or, rarely, on the membranes that
cover the lungs or heart.
The misplaced endometrial tissue can irritate nearby tissues, causing bands of scar tissue
(adhesions) to form between structures in the abdomen. The misplaced tissue can also block the
fallopian tubes, causing infertility.
Endometriosis is a chronic disorder that may be painful. It is unknown exactly how many women have
endometriosis because it can usually be diagnosed

==HIV감염|PRO==
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection
ByEdward R. Cachay, MD, MAS, Mayo Clinic, Arizona
Reviewed ByChristina A. Muzny, MD, MSPH, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Reviewed/Revised May 2024 | Modified May 2026
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (infection with either HIV-1 or
HIV-2) destroys CD4+ lymphocytes and impairs cell-mediated immunity,
increasing risk of certain infections and cancers. Initial infection may cause
nonspecific febrile illness. Risk of subsequent manifestations—related to
immunodeficiency—is proportional to the level of CD4+ lymphocyte depletion.
HIV can directly damage the brain, gonads, kidneys, and heart, causing
cognitive impairment, hypogonadism, renal insufficiency, or cardiomyopathy.
Manifestations range from asymptomatic carriage of the virus to end-stage HIV
(acquired immune deficiency syndrome [AIDS]), which is defined by the
presence of an AIDS-defining illness (serious opportunistic infections or
cancers) or a CD4 count < 200/mcL. HIV infection can be diagnosed by antibody,
nucleic acid (HIV RNA), or antigen (p24) testing. Screening should be routinely
offered to all adults and adolescents ages 13 to 64. In addition, pregnant
women should be tested for HIV early in each pregnancy, even if they have
been screened during previous pregnancies. Treatment aims to suppress HIV
replication by using combinations of ≥ 2 medications that inhibit HIV enzymes;
treatment can restore immune function in most patients if suppression of
replication is sustained.
(See also Human Immunodeﬁciency Virus (HIV) Infection in Infants and Children .)
Human immunodeﬁciency virus (HIV) is a retrovirus. Retroviruses are enveloped RNA viruses deﬁned by
their mechanism of replication via reverse transcription to prod

==HIV감염|CON==
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection
ByEdward R. Cachay, MD, MAS, Mayo Clinic, Arizona
Reviewed/Revised May 2024 | Modified Apr 2026
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is a viral infection that
progressively destroys certain white blood cells and is treated with
antiretroviral medications. If untreated, it can cause acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), which is sometimes referred to as end-
stage HIV infection.
HIV is transmitted through exchange of bodily ﬂuids (semen, vaginal ﬂuid, blood, breast
milk) with an infected person, usually through vaginal or anal sex, sharing needles, or from
mother to child (during pregnancy, birth, or breastfeeding).
HIV destroys certain types of white blood cells, weakening the body’s defenses against
infections and cancers.
When people are ﬁrst infected, symptoms of fever, rashes, swollen lymph nodes, and
fatigue may last a few days to several weeks, and then they may have no symptoms for
more than a decade.
Blood tests to check for HIV antibody and to measure the amount of HIV virus can conﬁrm
the diagnosis.
HIV screening tests are available for adults and adolescents, particularly pregnant women
regardless of what their risk appears to be.
HIV medications (antiretroviral medications) can stop HIV from reproducing, allow the
immune system to strengthen, and thus allow people to live without severe infections or
HIV-related cancers.
Most untreated people eventually become ill and develop AIDS, deﬁned by the presence of
serious infections and cancers.
(See also HIV Infection in Children .)
HIV infections may be caused by 1 of 2 retroviruses, HIV-1 or HIV-2 (see sidebar What Is a Retrovirus? ).
HIV-1 causes most HIV infections worldwide, but HIV-2 causes many HIV infections in West Africa. HIV-2
appears to be less 

==과민성대장증후군|PRO==
Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS)
ByZubair Malik, MD, Virtua Health System
Reviewed ByMinhhuyen Nguyen, MD, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Temple University
Reviewed/Revised Apr 2024 | Modified Jan 2026
Irritable bowel syndrome is characterized by recurrent abdominal discomfort or
pain with at least two of the following characteristics: relation to defecation,
association with a change in frequency of stool, or association with a change in
consistency of stool. The cause is not known, and the pathophysiology is
incompletely understood. Diagnosis is clinical. Treatment is symptomatic,
consisting of dietary management and medications, including anticholinergics
and agents active at serotonin receptors.
Etiology of IBS
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS—previously called functional gastrointestinal [GI] disorders) is a disorder
of gut-brain interaction. No anatomic cause can be found on laboratory tests, imaging studies, and
biopsies.
Emotional factors, diet, viral illnesses, or hormones may precipitate or aggravate GI symptoms.
Historically, the disorder was often considered as purely psychosomatic. Although psychosocial factors
can be involved, IBS is better understood as a combination of physiologic and psychosocial factors.
Physiologic factors
A variety of physiologic factors seem to be involved in IBS symptoms. These factors include
Increased intestinal sensitivity (visceral hyperalgesia)
Altered intestinal motility
Visceral hyperalgesia  refers to hypersensitivity to normal amounts of intraluminal distention and
heightened perception of pain in the presence of normal quantities of intestinal gas; it may result from
remodeling of neural pathways in the gut-brain axis. Some patients (perhaps 1 in 7) have reported their
IBS symptoms began after an episode of acute gastroenteritis  (t

==과민성대장증후군|CON==
Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS)
ByZubair Malik, MD, Virtua Health System
Reviewed/Revised Apr 2024 | Modified Nov 2025
Irritable bowel syndrome is a disorder of the digestive tract that causes
recurring abdominal pain and constipation or diarrhea.
Symptoms vary but often include lower abdominal pain, bloating, gas, and constipation or
diarrhea.
A variety of substances and emotional factors can trigger symptoms of irritable bowel
syndrome.
A doctor usually diagnoses irritable bowel syndrome based on the symptoms but does tests
to rule out other problems.
Diet modiﬁcation and medications can usually relieve speciﬁc symptoms.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is common among the general population. IBS is a common reason why
people visit their primary care physician.
IBS is a disorder of the movement of the intestines, the sensitivity of the nerves of the intestines, or the
way in which the brain controls some of these functions. However, although the normal functioning is
impaired, there are no structural abnormalities that can be found with an endoscope (a ﬂexible viewing
tube), imaging studies, biopsies, or blood tests. Thus, IBS is identiﬁed by the characteristics of the
symptoms and, when done, normal results of tests.
Causes of Irritable Bowel Syndrome
The cause of IBS is not clear. In many people with IBS, the digestive tract is especially sensitive to stimuli.
People may experience discomfort caused by intestinal gas or contractions that other people do not
ﬁnd distressing. Although the changes in bowel movements that occur with IBS might seem to be
related to abnormal intestinal contractions, not all people with IBS have abnormal contractions, and in
many of those who do, the abnormal contractions do not always coincide with symptoms. In some
people, symptoms of IBS b

==요추척추관협착증|PRO==
Lumbar Spinal Stenosis
ByPeter J. Moley, MD, Hospital for Special Surgery
Reviewed ByBrian F. Mandell, MD, PhD, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine at Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised Nov 2024 | Modified Jul 2025
Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is narrowing of the lumbar spinal canal causing
compression of the nerve rootlets and nerve roots in the cauda equina before
their exit from the foramina. It causes positional back pain, symptoms of nerve
root compression in the foramina, and lower-extremity pain during walking or
weight bearing.
(See also Evaluation of Neck and Back Pain .)
Spinal stenosis can be congenital or acquired. It may involve the cervical or lumbar spine. Lumbar spinal
stenosis often occurs through increases in the size of the ligamentum ﬂavum, enlargement of the facet
joints, and broad-based disc bulges. The most common causes of LSS are osteoarthritis , degenerative
disc disorders, spondylosis , and spondylolisthesis  with compression of the cauda equina. Other causes
include Paget disease of bone
Symptoms and Signs of Lumbar Spinal Stenosis
In patients with lumbar spinal stenosis, pain occurs in the buttocks, thighs, or calves during walking,
running, climbing stairs, or even standing. This pain is referred to as neurogenic claudication. The pain is
not relieved by standing still but by ﬂexing the back or by sitting (although paresthesias may continue)
because, as with the cervical spinal canal, the lumbar spinal canal is larger in ﬂexion and smaller in
extension. Thus, patients often experience some relief when pushing a shopping cart or using a rolling
walker because the back is slightly ﬂexed. Similarly, walking up hills is less painful than walking down.
Patients may have pain, paresthesias, weakness, and diminished reﬂexes i

==요추척추관협착증|CON==
The Spine and Spinal CordLumbar Spinal Stenosis
ByPeter J. Moley, MD, Hospital for Special Surgery
Reviewed/Revised Nov 2024
Lumbar spinal stenosis is narrowing of the spinal canal in the lower back. The
narrowing squeezes (compresses) the nerves that travel through the lower back
into the legs.
Osteoarthritis , injuries, spondylolisthesis , and spondylolysis can cause narrowing of the
spinal canal.
Pain is felt in the low back and may travel down one or both legs.
The diagnosis is based on a doctor's evaluation and sometimes on the results of imaging or
electrodiagnostic tests.
Treatment includes measures to relieve pain and sometimes surgery.
The spinal canal runs through the center of the spine and contains the spinal cord  and the bundle of
nerves that extends downward from the bottom of the spinal cord in the lower back. The word lumbar
means lower,  and stenosis  means narrowing .
VIDEOMSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Along the length of the spinal cord are the spinal nerves. The spinal nerves emerge from the sides
through spaces between the vertebrae to connect with nerves throughout the body. The part of the
spinal nerve nearest the spinal cord is called the spinal nerve root. Because of their location, spinal
nerve roots can be squeezed when the spinal canal is narrowed, resulting in pain.
Lumbar spinal stenosis is a common cause of low back pain  in older people and may also cause sciatica .
Spinal stenosis also develops in middle-aged people who were born with a narrow spinal canal.
The most common causes of lumbar spinal stenosis include osteoarthritis , spondylolisthesis , and
spondylolysis. Paget disease of bone  is a less common cause. The Spine
A column of bones called vertebrae make up the spine (spinal column). The vertebrae protect
the spinal cord (a long,

==폐암|PRO==
Lung Carcinoma
(Lung Cancer)
ByMaria A. Velez, MD, MS, University of California, Los Angeles
Reviewed ByM. Patricia Rivera, MD, University of Rochester Medical Center
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2026 | Modified Apr 2026
Lung carcinoma is the leading cause of cancer-related death in both men and women worldwide. Approximately 85% of cases
are related to cigarette smoking. Symptoms can include cough, chest discomfort or pain, weight loss, and, less commonly,
hemoptysis. However, many patients with early disease and some with metastatic disease have no symptoms at the time of
diagnosis. The diagnosis is suspected based on chest radiography or chest CT findings and confirmed by biopsy. Depending
on the stage of the disease, treatment includes surgery, systemic therapy, radiation therapy, or a combination. The prognosis
for a patient with lung cancer has historically been poor, with only 15% of patients surviving > 5 years from the time of
diagnosis. For patients with stage IV (metastatic) disease, the 5-year overall survival rate was < 1%. However, outcomes have
improved because of the identification of mutations that can be targeted with specific therapy, and the current 5-year overall
survival rate for stage IV non–small cell lung cancer is approximately 12%.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide, with the International Agency for Research on Cancer estimating 2.5 million incident cases and 1.8
million deaths in 2022 ( 1). Lung cancer accounts for approximately 12% of all new cancer diagnoses and nearly 19% of cancer deaths globally. There is
signiﬁcant variation in the occurrence of lung cancer worldwide, with some areas having higher incidence rates (eg, Australia, New Zealand) and some lower
(eg, West Africa). There is a male predominance. These variation

==폐암|CON==
Lung Cancer
(Lung Carcinoma)
ByMaria A. Velez, MD, MS, University of California, Los Angeles
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2026 | Modified May 2026
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women.
About 85% of cases are related to cigarette smoking.
One common symptom is a persistent cough or a change in the character of a chronic
cough.
Chest x-rays can detect lung cancer, but other additional imaging tests(such as CT and PET-
CT) and biopsies are needed to conﬁrm the diagnosis.
Surgery, chemotherapy, targeted agents, immunotherapy, and radiation therapy may all be
used to treat lung cancer.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Lung cancer accounts for about 12% of all
new cancer diagnoses and nearly 19% of cancer deaths globally. There is signiﬁcant variation in the
occurrence of lung cancer worldwide, with some areas having higher incidence rates (such as Australia
and New Zealand) and some lower (such as West Africa). There is a male predominance. These
variations by sex and region may in part be explained by diﬀering prevalences of smoking and levels of
economic development. In the United States, an estimated 226,650 new cases of lung cancer are
expected to be diagnosed in 2025 (about 110,680 in men and 115,970 in women), and 124,730 people
are expected to die from the disease.
Primary lung cancer  is cancer that originates from lung cells. Primary lung cancer can start in the
airways that branch oﬀ the trachea to supply the lungs (the bronchi) or in the small air sacs of the lung
(the alveoli).
Metastatic cancer of the lung is cancer that has started in another part of the body spreads to the lung
(most commonly from the breasts, colon, prostate, kidneys, thyroid gland, stomach, cervix, rectum,
testes, bones, or skin).MSD MANUA

==편두통|PRO==
Migraine
ByStephen D. Silberstein, MD, Sidney Kimmel Medical College at Thomas Jefferson University
Reviewed ByMichael C. Levin, MD, College of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2025 | Modified Jul 2025
Migraine is an episodic primary headache disorder. Symptoms typically last 4 to
72 hours and may be severe. Pain is often unilateral, throbbing, worse with
exertion, and accompanied by symptoms such as nausea and sensitivity to
light, sound, or odors. Auras occur in about 25% of patients, usually just before
but sometimes after the headache. Diagnosis is clinical. Treatment is with
triptans, dihydroergotamine, antiemetics, and analgesics. Preventive regimens
include lifestyle modifications (eg, sleep habits or diet) and medications (eg,
beta-blockers, amitriptyline, topiramate, divalproex, monoclonal antibodies).
(See also Approach to the Patient With Headache .)
Epidemiology of Migraine
Migraine is the most common cause of recurrent moderate to severe headache; 1-year prevalence is
18% for women and 6% for men in the United States ( 1). Migraine most commonly begins during
puberty or young adulthood, waxing and waning in frequency and severity over the ensuing years; it
often diminishes after age 50. Studies show familial aggregation of migraine.
Evidence suggests that migraine may frequently develop after mild traumatic brain injury  (2, 3).
Epidemiology references
1. Lipton RB, Bigal ME, Diamond M, Freitag F, Reed ML, Stewart WF; AMPP Advisory Group .
Migraine prevalence, disease burden, and the need for preventive therapy. Neurology.  2007 Jan
30;68(5):343-9. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000252808.97649.21
2. Ishii R, Schwedt TJ, Trivedi M, Dumkrieger G, Cortez MM, Brennan KC, Digre K, Dodick DW . Mild
traumatic brain injury aﬀects the features of mig

==편두통|CON==
Migraines
ByStephen D. Silberstein, MD, Sidney Kimmel Medical College at Thomas Jefferson University
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2025 | Modified Aug 2025
A migraine headache is typically a pulsating or throbbing pain that ranges from
moderate to severe. It can affect one or both sides of the head. It is often
worsened by physical activity, light, sounds, or odors and accompanied by
nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity to sounds, light, and/or odors.
Migraines may be triggered by lack of sleep, changes in the weather, hunger, excessive
stimulation of the senses, stress, or other factors.
They can be made worse by physical activity, light, sounds, or odors.
Doctors base the diagnosis on typical symptoms.
There is no cure for migraines, but medications are used to stop the migraine as it is
starting, to relieve pain, and to reduce the number and severity of migraines attacks.
(See also Overview of Headache .)
Migraines are the most common cause of recurring moderate to severe headaches.
Although migraines can start at any age, they usually begin during puberty or young adulthood. In most
people, migraines recur periodically (fewer than 15 days a month). After age 50, headaches often
become signiﬁcantly less severe or resolve entirely. Migraines are 3 times more common among
women. In the United States, about 18% of women and 6% of men have a migraine at some time each
year.
Migraines may become chronic. That is, they occur 15 or more days a month. Chronic migraines often
develop in people who overuse medications to treat migraines.
Migraines tend to run in families. More than half the people who have migraines have close relatives
who also have them.
Causes of Migraine
Migraines occur in people whose nervous system is unusually sensitive to certain stimuli. In these
people, nerve ce

==골반염|PRO==
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
ByOluwatosin Goje, MD, MSCR, Cleveland Clinic, Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised Mar 2023 | Modified Oct 2023
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is a polymicrobial infection of the upper
female genital tract: the cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries; abscess
may occur. PID may be caused by sexually transmitted infections. Common
symptoms and signs include lower abdominal pain, irregular vaginal bleeding,
cervical discharge, and cervical motion tenderness. Long-term complications
may include infertility, chronic pelvic pain, and ectopic pregnancy. Diagnosis
includes polymerase chain reaction testing of cervical specimens for Neisseria
gonorrhoeae and chlamydiae, microscopic examination of cervical discharge
(usually), and ultrasonography or laparoscopy (occasionally). Treatment is with
antibiotics.
Pelvic inﬂammatory disease (PID) may involve the cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes, and/or ovaries.
Infection of the cervix ( cervicitis ) causes mucopurulent discharge. Infection of the fallopian tubes
(salpingitis) and uterus (endometritis) tend to occur together. If severe, infection can spread to the
ovaries (oophoritis) and then the peritoneum (peritonitis). Salpingitis with endometritis and oophoritis,
with or without peritonitis, is often called salpingitis even though other structures are involved. Pus may
collect in the tubes (pyosalpinx), and an abscess may form (tubo-ovarian abscess).
Etiology of PID
PID results from microorganisms ascending from the vagina and cervix into the uterus and fallopian
tubes. The sexually transmitted infections Neisseria gonorrhoeae  and Chlamydia trachomatis  are common
causes of PID. Mycoplasma genitalium , which is also sexually transmitted, can also c

==골반염|CON==
Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
ByOluwatosin Goje, MD, MSCR, Cleveland Clinic, Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised Mar 2023 | Modified May 2024
Pelvic inflammatory disease is an infection of the upper female reproductive
organs (the cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries).
Pelvic inﬂammatory disease is often caused by a sexually transmitted infection.
Typically, women have pain in the lower abdomen, abnormal vaginal discharge, and
sometimes fever or irregular vaginal bleeding.
The diagnosis is based on symptoms, analysis of secretions from the cervix, and sometimes
blood tests or ultrasonography.
Treatment is with antibiotics.
Pelvic inﬂammatory disease may be an infection of the
Cervix, which is the lower, narrow part of the uterus that opens into the vagina ( cervicitis )
Lining of the uterus (endometritis)
Fallopian tubes (salpingitis)
Ovaries (oophoritis)
Area around the ovaries and tubes (tubo-ovarian abscess)
A combination of the above
Pelvic inﬂammatory disease is the most common preventable cause of infertility  in the United States.
Many women who have had pelvic inﬂammatory disease have diﬃculty getting pregnant.
About one third of women who have had pelvic inﬂammatory disease develop the infection again.
Pelvic inﬂammatory disease usually occurs in sexually active women. It rarely aﬀects girls before their
ﬁrst menstrual period (menarche) or women during pregnancy or after menopause. Risk factors are
Previous pelvic inﬂammatory disease
Sexually transmitted infections
Bacterial vaginosis
Other risk factors include
Sexual activity, especially in people younger than 35 years oldMSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Multiple or new sex partners or a male partner who does not use a condom
Douching
Causes of Pelvic Inflammat

==전립선암|PRO==
Prostate Cancer
ByThenappan Chandrasekar, MD, University of California, Davis
Reviewed ByLeonard G. Gomella, MD, Sidney Kimmel Medical College at Thomas Jefferson University
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2025 | Modified Nov 2025
Prostate cancer is usually adenocarcinoma. Symptoms are typically absent until
tumor growth causes hematuria and/or obstruction with pain. Diagnosis is
suggested by digital rectal examination (DRE) or prostate-specific antigen (PSA)
measurement and confirmed by transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy.
Screening is controversial and should involve shared decision-making.
Treatment is with prostatectomy, radiation therapy, palliative measures (eg,
hormonal therapy, radiation therapy, chemotherapy), or, for many older
patients and even carefully selected younger patients, active surveillance.
Prognosis for most patients with prostate cancer, especially when it is localized
or regional (usually before symptoms develop), is very good; more men die with
prostate cancer than of it.
Adenocarcinoma of the prostate is the most common nondermatologic cancer in men > 50 in the
United States. In the United States, it is estimated that about 299,010 new cases and about 35,250
deaths will occur in 2024 ( 1). Incidence increases with each decade of life; autopsy studies show
prostate cancer in 15 to 60% of men aged 60 to 90 years old, with incidence increasing with age. The
lifetime risk of being diagnosed with prostate cancer is 1 in 6. Median age at diagnosis is 72, and > 60%
of prostate cancers are diagnosed in men > 65 ( 1). Risk is highest for Black men, in particular those from
the Caribbean. Genetic risk factors include BRCA1/2  mutations, Lynch syndrome , and family history of
some hereditary breast and ovarian cancers.
Sarcoma of the prostate is rare, occurring pr

==전립선암|CON==
Prostate Cancer
ByThenappan Chandrasekar, MD, University of California, Davis
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2025
Prostate cancer begins in the prostate gland, an organ found only in males.
The risk of prostate cancer increases as men age.
Symptoms, such as diﬃculty urinating, a need to urinate frequently and urgently, and blood
in the urine, usually occur only after the cancer is advanced.
The cancer can spread, most commonly to bones and lymph nodes.
Doctors may do a digital rectal examination to examine the prostate using a gloved ﬁnger in
the rectum and a blood test (PSA) to check for prostate cancer in men without symptoms.
If cancer is suspected, imaging and a biopsy of prostate tissue are done.
Treatment may involve active surveillance, removal of the prostate gland, radiation therapy,
or hormonal or newer medications to slow cancer growth.
Among men in the United States, prostate cancer is the most common cancer and 1 of the most
common causes of cancer death. Every year, more than 299,010 new cases are diagnosed and 35,250
people die of prostate cancer (2024 estimates). The chance of developing prostate cancer increases with
age and is greater for
Men who are Black, particularly those from the Caribbean
Men whose close relatives had the disease
Men who have relatives with other cancers such as breast or ovarian cancer
Prostate cancer usually grows very slowly and may take decades to cause symptoms. Thus, particularly
because it occurs more often in older men, far more men have prostate cancer than die from it. Many
men with prostate cancer die from other causes without ever knowing that they had prostate cancer.
Some prostate cancers, however, grow rapidly or spread outside the prostate.
The cause of prostate cancer is not known.
Symptoms of Prostate Cancer
Prostate canc

==건선|PRO==
Psoriasis
ByShinjita Das, MD MPH, Massachusetts General Hospital
Reviewed ByJoseph F. Merola, MD, MMSc, UT Southwestern Medical Center
Reviewed/Revised Nov 2025 | Modified Feb 2026
Psoriasis is an inflammatory skin disease that manifests most commonly as
well-circumscribed, erythematous papules and plaques covered with silvery
scales. Multiple factors contribute, including genetics. Common triggers include
trauma, infection, and certain medications. Symptoms are usually minimal, but
mild to severe itching may occur. Cosmetic implications may be major. Up to
30% of patients develop psoriatic arthritis. Diagnosis is based on appearance
and distribution of lesions. Treatment can include topical agents (eg,
glucocorticoids, vitamin D3 analogs, calcineurin inhibitors, tazarotene,
roflumilast, tapinarof), phototherapy, and systemic medications (eg,
methotrexate, oral retinoids, cyclosporine, and targeted biologic or oral small
molecules).
Psoriasis causes hyperproliferation of epidermal keratinocytes combined with inﬂammation of the
epidermis and dermis. It is also a chronic inﬂammatory disorder with potential multiorgan involvement.
Estimates of the prevalence of psoriasis vary widely across diﬀerent populations, and it is likely that
psoriasis is underreported among people with dark skin compared with people with light skin ( 1). In one
systematic review of worldwide epidemiologic trends, psoriasis was found to be unequally distributed
across geographical regions ( 2, 3). The incidence of psoriasis was highest in Australasia (1.99%), followed
by Western Europe (1.92%), Central Europe (1.83%), and North America (1.50%); it was lower in Southern
Latin America (1.10%) and lowest in East Asia (0.14%). It is diagnosed more frequently in resource-rich
countries and in regions wit

==건선|CON==
Psoriasis
ByShinjita Das, MD MPH, Massachusetts General Hospital
Reviewed/Revised Nov 2025
Psoriasis is a chronic, recurring disease that causes one or more raised, red
patches that have silvery scales and a distinct border between the patch and
normal skin.
A problem with the immune system may play a role, and some people are genetically
predisposed to psoriasis.
Characteristic scales or red patches can appear anywhere on the body in large or small
patches, particularly the elbows, knees, and scalp.
This disease is treated with a combination of medications applied to the skin, exposure to
ultraviolet light (phototherapy), and medications taken by mouth or given by injection.
Psoriasis is common and varies widely among diﬀerent populations worldwide. It is likely that psoriasis
is underreported among people with dark skin compared with people with light skin.
Psoriasis is found more often in adults than children, but can occur at any age
The patches of psoriasis occur because of an abnormally high rate of growth of skin cells. The reason
for the rapid cell growth is unknown, but a problem with the immune system is thought to play a role.
The disorder often runs in families, and certain genes are associated with psoriasis.
Some well-identiﬁed triggers of psoriasis include:
Minor skin injuries
Sunburn
HIV infection
Streptococcal infection, such as strep throat (leading to guttate psoriasis)
Medications (especially beta-blockers, chloroquine , lithium , angiotensin-converting enzyme
inhibitors, indomethacin , terbinaﬁne , interferon-alfa, immune checkpoint inhibitors, and
tumor necrosis factor inhibitors)
Emotional stress
Alcohol consumption
Tobacco smokingMSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Obesity
Symptoms of Psoriasis
Red Patch in Psoriasis
Psoriasis typically causes red bumps 

==소아청소년제2형당뇨병|PRO==
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in Children and
Adolescents
ByNeha Suresh Patel, DO, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine
Reviewed ByMichael SD Agus, MD, Harvard Medical School
Reviewed/Revised Jan 2026 | Modified Mar 2026
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin resistance and inadequate
insulin secretion relative to physiologic needs. Early symptoms are related to
hyperglycemia and include polydipsia, polyphagia, polyuria, and blurred vision.
Diagnosis is by measuring plasma glucose. Treatment is diet, exercise, and
medications that reduce glucose levels, including metformin, insulin, and non-
insulin injectable and oral medications. Later complications include vascular
disease, peripheral neuropathy, nephropathy, and predisposition to infection.
Complications can be delayed or prevented with adequate glycemic control.
Rising prevalence of childhood obesity has led to an increase in the incidence of childhood type 2
diabetes, and in increase in the proportion of type 2 relative to type 1 diabetes diagnoses in children ( 1,
2). Type 2 diabetes is typically diagnosed in early adolescence with onset of puberty, when insulin
resistance naturally increases and there is rapid growth and pubertal changes. (See also obesity in
children  and obesity in adolescents .)
Approximately 75% of children with type 2 diabetes have obesity ( 3). However, there is considerable
heterogeneity, and the relationship between obesity and age at onset of type 2 diabetes is less clear in
some ethnicities (eg, Asian, particularly Japanese, children) ( 3).
General references
1. Gesuita R, Eckert AJ, Besançon S, et al . Frequency and clinical characteristics of children and
young people with type 2 diabetes at diagnosis from ﬁve world regions between 2012 and 2021:
data from the SWEET

==소아청소년제2형당뇨병|CON==
Type 2 Diabetes in Children and Adolescents
ByNeha Suresh Patel, DO, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine
Reviewed/Revised Jan 2026
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a disorder of insulin resistance, leading to an insulin
release that is not enough for the body's metabolic needs. Type 2 diabetes is
characterized by high blood sugar and is often associated with overweight or
obesity.
Resistance to the eﬀects of insulin  often occurs before symptoms, and is often related to
obesity or the metabolic syndrome.
Early symptoms are related to hyperglycemia (high blood glucose level) and include
excessive thirst, excessive hunger, excessive urination, and blurred vision.
Doctors diagnose diabetes by measuring blood sugar levels.
Diabetes can damage blood vessels and increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, chronic
kidney disease, and vision loss.
Diabetes can damage nerves and cause problems with the sense of touch.
People with type 2 diabetes need to follow a healthy diet that is low in reﬁned
carbohydrates (including sugar), saturated fat, and processed foods. They also need to
exercise and maintain a healthy weight. Many also need to take medication to lower their
blood glucose levels.
Among children, type 2 diabetes occurs mainly in adolescents but is becoming increasingly common
among younger children with overweight (weigh more than 85% of children of similar age, sex, and
height) or obesity (weigh more than 95% of children of similar age, sex, and height). About one-third of
children newly diagnosed with diabetes have type 2 diabetes, and about three-quarters of children with
type 2 diabetes have obesity.
Type 2 diabetes typically develops after puberty  has begun.
Children at higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes include those who:
Have overweight or obesity
Ha

==두드러기|PRO==
Urticaria
(Hives; Wheals)
ByJulia Benedetti, MD, Harvard Medical School
Reviewed ByJoseph F. Merola, MD, MMSc, UT Southwestern Medical Center
Reviewed/Revised Jan 2024 | Modified Jul 2025
Urticaria consists of migratory, well-circumscribed, erythematous, pruritic plaques on the skin.
Urticaria also may be accompanied by angioedema , which results from mast cell and basophil activation
in the deeper dermis and subcutaneous tissues and manifests as edema of the face and lips,
extremities, or genitals. Angioedema can occur in the bowel and manifest as colicky abdominal pain.
Angioedema can be life-threatening if airway obstruction occurs because of laryngeal edema or tongue
swelling.
(See also Evaluation of the Dermatologic Patient .)
Pathophysiology of Urticaria
Urticaria results from the release of histamine, bradykinin, kallikrein, and other vasoactive substances
from mast cells and basophils in the superﬁcial dermis, resulting in intradermal edema caused by
capillary and venous vasodilation and occasionally caused by leukocyte inﬁltration.
The process can be immune mediated or nonimmune mediated.
Immune-mediated mast cell activation  includes
Type I hypersensitivity  reactions, in which allergen-bound IgE antibodies bind to high-
aﬃnity cell surface receptors on mast cells and basophils
Autoimmune disorders , in which antibodies to an IgE receptor functionally cross-link IgE
receptors and cause mast cell degranulation
Nonimmune-mediated mast cell activation  includes
Direct nonallergic activation of mast cells by certain medications or substances
Drug-induced cyclooxygenase inhibition that activates mast cells by poorly understood
mechanisms
Activation by physical or emotional stimuli; mechanism is poorly understood but possibly
involves the release of neuropeptides th

==두드러기|CON==
Hives
(Urticaria; Wheals)
ByThomas M. Ruenger, MD, PhD, Georg-August University of Göttingen, Germany
Reviewed/Revised Apr 2025 | Modified Jul 2025
Hives are red, itchy, slightly elevated swellings. The swelling is caused by the release of chemicals (such
as histamine) from mast cells in the skin, which cause ﬂuid to leak out of small blood vessels
temporarily. Itching may be severe. Hives have clearly deﬁned borders and may have a pale center.
Typically, crops of hives come and go. One hive may remain for several hours, then disappear, and later,
another may appear elsewhere. After the hive disappears, the skin usually looks completely normal.
(See also Itching .)MSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Hives
Hide Details
Hives are raised, itchy, and reddish spots on the skin.
Photo provided by Thomas Habif, MD.
Angioedema
Hives may occur with angioedema , which, like hives, involves swelling. However, the swelling of
angioedema is under the skin rather than on its surface. Sometimes angioedema aﬀects the face, lips,
throat, tongue, and airways. It can be life threatening if the swelling interferes with breathing.
Causes of Hives
Hives and angioedema can be allergic reactions .
Hives may occur when certain chemicals are inhaled, consumed, injected, or touched. These chemicals
can be in the environment, foods, drugs (including medications), insects, plants, or other sources. They
are harmless in most people. But if people are sensitive to them, these chemicals (called triggers or
allergens) can cause an allergic reaction. That is, the immune system overreacts to the chemicals.
However, most of the time, hives are not part of an allergic reaction and an allergen (the cause of the
allergic reaction) cannot be identiﬁed. For example, they may result from autoimmune disorders . In these

==자궁근종|PRO==
Uterine Fibroids
(Leiomyomas; Myomas)
ByCharles Kilpatrick, MD, MEd, Baylor College of Medicine
Reviewed ByOluwatosin Goje, MD, MSCR, Cleveland Clinic, Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2025 | Modified May 2025
Uterine fibroids (leiomyomas) are benign smooth muscle tumors of the uterus.
Fibroids frequently cause abnormal uterine bleeding and pelvic pressure and
sometimes urinary or bowel symptoms, infertility, or pregnancy complications.
Diagnosis is by pelvic examination or ultrasound or other imaging studies.
Treatment of patients depends on symptoms, desire for fertility, and patient
preferences. Treatment may include estrogen-progestin contraceptives,
progestin therapy, tranexamic acid, gonadotropin-releasing hormone
agonists/antagonists, uterine artery embolization, and surgical procedures (eg,
myomectomy, hysterectomy).
Uterine ﬁbroids (leiomyomas) are smooth muscle tumors that usually arise from the myometrium and
are the most common pelvic tumor. Many ﬁbroids are small or asymptomatic.
In the United States, prevalence of uterine ﬁbroids by age 50 is approximately 70% in White women and
80% in Black women ( 1). Prevalence is increased in women with early menarche, obesity, and
hypertension; high parity (3 or more births) is associated with a decreased risk ( 2).
Although patients are often concerned about cancer in ﬁbroids, sarcomatous change occurs in < 1% of
patients ( 3).
Most patients with ﬁbroids have multiple ﬁbroids. Anatomic locations of ﬁbroids in the uterus are
Subserosal
Intramural
Submucosal
Occasionally, ﬁbroids develop in the broad ligament (intraligamentous), cervix, or, rarely, fallopian
tubes. Some ﬁbroids are pedunculated, and others are sessile. Submucosal ﬁbroids may extend into the
uterine cavi

==자궁근종|CON==
Uterine Fibroids
(Leiomyomas; Myomas)
ByCharles Kilpatrick, MD, MEd, Baylor College of Medicine
Reviewed/Revised Feb 2025 | Modified Jul 2025
A fibroid is a noncancerous tumor of the uterus that is composed of muscle and
fibrous tissue.
Uterine ﬁbroids are very common, occurring in approximately 70% of White women and
80% of Black women by age 50 in the United States.
Fibroids may cause no symptoms or can cause abnormal uterine bleeding or pressure or
pain in the pelvis, and sometimes constipation, an urge to urinate frequently, infertility, or
pregnancy complications.
Doctors do a pelvic examination and usually ultrasound to conﬁrm the diagnosis.
Treatment is necessary only if ﬁbroids cause problems.
Doctors may prescribe medications to control the symptoms, but surgery or a procedure to
destroy or remove the ﬁbroids is often needed to relieve symptoms or to improve fertility.MSD MANUAL
Consumer Version The Uterus, Cervix, and Cervic...Fibroids
The uterus is enlarged and has an irregular shape because several fibroids are present.
(U.S. NAVY PHOTOGRAPH)
Fibroids are also called leiomyomas or myomas.
Fibroids in the uterus are the most common noncancerous tumor (mass) of the female reproductive
tract. Many ﬁbroids are small and cause no symptoms, but approximately 15 to 30% of women with
ﬁbroids develop severe symptoms.
IMAGE
VIDEO The cause of ﬁbroids is unknown. High levels of estrogen  and possibly progesterone  (female hormones)
seem to stimulate their growth. Fibroids may become larger during pregnancy (when levels of these
hormones increase), and ﬁbroids tend to shrink after menopause (when levels decrease drastically).
Fibroids may be microscopic or as large as a basketball. Most women with a ﬁbroid have more than one
ﬁbroid. Sometimes, if ﬁbroids grow too large,

