=== Osteoarthritis (OA) - Rheumatology and Orthopedics - MS ===
Osteoarthritis (OA)
(Degenerative Joint Disease; Osteoarthrosis; Hypertrophic Osteoarthritis)
ByKinanah Yaseen, MD, Cleveland Clinic
Reviewed ByBrian F. Mandell, MD, PhD, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine at Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised May 2026
Osteoarthritis is a chronic arthropathy characterized by progressive loss of joint
cartilage along with other joint changes, including bone hypertrophy
(periarticular osteophyte formation and sclerosis). Symptoms include gradually
developing pain aggravated or triggered by activity, stiffness lasting < 30
minutes on awakening and after inactivity, and occasional joint swelling.
Diagnosis is confirmed by radiographs. Treatment includes nonpharmacologic
(eg, patient education, weight loss, joint protection strategies) and
pharmacologic measures (eg, topical or oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs [NSAIDs]) for pain relief. Surgical measures (eg, total joint replacement)
may be required for patients with advanced disease with inadequate symptom
control.
Osteoarthritis, the most common joint disorder, often becomes symptomatic in the 40s and 50s and is
nearly universal (although not always symptomatic) by age 80. Only half of patients with pathologic
changes of osteoarthritis have symptoms ( 1). Below age 40, most large-joint osteoarthritis occurs in
men and often results from trauma or anatomic variation (eg, hip dysplasias). Women predominate
from age 40 to 70, after which men and women are equally aﬀected ( 2).
General references
1. Hannan MT, Felson DT, Pincus T . Analysis of the discordance between radiographic changes and
knee pain in osteoarthritis of the knee.  J Rheumatol . 2000;27(6):1513-1517.
2. Allen KD, Thoma LM, Golightly YM . Epidemiology of osteoarthritis.  Osteoarthritis Cartilage .
2022;30(2):184-195. doi:10.1016/j.joca.2021.04.020
Classification of Osteoarthritis
Osteoarthritis is classiﬁed as primary (idiopathic) or secondary to some known cause.MSD MANUAL
Professional Version Overview of Osteoarthritis
Primary osteoarthritis  may be localized to speciﬁc joints (eg, hands, knee, hip). If primary
osteoarthritis involves multiple joints, it is classiﬁed as generalized osteoarthritis.
Secondary osteoarthritis  results from conditions that change the microenvironment of the cartilage or
joint structure. These conditions include signiﬁcant trauma, congenital joint abnormalities, metabolic
defects (eg, hemochromatosis , Wilson disease ), infections (causing postinfectious arthritis), endocrine
and neuropathic diseases, and disorders that alter the normal structure and function of hyaline
cartilage (eg, rheumatoid arthritis , psoriatic arthritis , calcium crystal deposition disease ).
Pathophysiology of Osteoarthritis
Normal joints have little friction with movement and do not wear out with typical use, overuse, or most
trauma. Hyaline cartilage is avascular, aneural, and alymphatic. It is 95% water and extracellular
cartilage matrix and only 5% chondrocytes. C

=== Osteoarthritis (OA) - Bone, Joint, and Muscle Disorders ===
Osteoarthritis (OA)
(Degenerative Arthritis; Degenerative Joint Disease; Osteoarthrosis)
ByKinanah Yaseen, MD, Cleveland Clinic
Reviewed/Revised May 2026
Osteoarthritis is a chronic disorder that causes damage to the cartilage and
surrounding tissues and is characterized by pain, stiffness, and loss of function.
Arthritis due to damage of joint cartilage and surrounding tissues becomes very common
with aging.
Pain, swelling, and bony overgrowth are common, as well as stiﬀness that follows
awakening or inactivity and disappears within 30 minutes, particularly if the joint is moved.
The diagnosis is based on symptoms and x-rays.
Treatment includes exercises and other physical measures, medications that reduce pain
and improve function, and, for very severe cases, joint replacement or other surgery.
Osteoarthritis, the most common joint disorder, often begins in the 40s and 50s and aﬀects almost all
people to some degree by age 80. Before the age of 40, men develop osteoarthritis more often than do
women, often because of injury or deformities. Many people have some evidence of osteoarthritis on x-
rays (often by age 40), but only half of these people have symptoms. From age 40 to 70, women develop
the disorder more often than do men. After age 70, the disorder develops in both sexes equally.
Osteoarthritis is classiﬁed as
Primary
Secondary
In primary (or idiopathic) osteoarthritis,  the cause is not known (primary osteoarthritis represents
the large majority of cases). Primary osteoarthritis may aﬀect only speciﬁc joints, such as hand, knee, or
hip joints, or it may aﬀect many joints.
In secondary osteoarthritis,  the cause is another disease or condition, such as
An infection
A joint abnormality that was present at birth
An injuryMSD MANUAL
Consumer Version A metabolic disorder—for example, excess iron in the body ( hemochromatosis ) or excess
copper  in the liver ( Wilson disease )
A disorder that has damaged joint cartilage—for example, rheumatoid arthritis  or gout
Some people who repetitively stress 1 joint or a group of joints, such as foundry workers, farmers, coal
miners, and bus drivers, are particularly at risk. The major risk factor for osteoarthritis of the knee
comes from having an occupation that involves bending the joint. Curiously, long-distance running does
not increase the risk of developing the disorder. However, once osteoarthritis develops, this type of
exercise often makes the disorder worse. Obesity may be a major factor in the development of
osteoarthritis, particularly of the knee and especially in women.
Causes of Osteoarthritis
Normally, cartilage reduces the friction level in joints and protects them from wearing out, even after
years of typical use, overuse, or injury. The cause of osteoarthritis is often unknown, but it is sometimes
caused by tissue damage. In an attempt to repair a damaged joint, chemicals accumulate in the joint
and increase the production of the components of cartilage, such as collagen (a tough, ﬁ

=== Osteoporosis - Rheumatology and Orthopedics - MSD Manua ===
Osteoporosis
ByMarcy B. Bolster, MD, Harvard Medical School
Reviewed ByBrian F. Mandell, MD, PhD, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine at Case Western Reserve University
Reviewed/Revised Jul 2025
Osteoporosis is a progressive metabolic bone disease that decreases bone
mineral density (bone mass per unit volume), with deterioration of bone
structure. Skeletal fragility leads to fractures with minor or inapparent trauma,
particularly in the thoracic and lumbar spine, wrist, and hip (called fragility
fractures). Diagnosis is by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA scan) or by
confirmation of a fragility fracture. Prevention and treatment involve risk factor
modification; calcium and vitamin D supplements; exercises to maximize bone
and muscle strength, improve balance, and minimize the risk of falls; and
pharmacotherapy to preserve bone mass or stimulate new bone formation.
Pathophysiology of Osteoporosis
Bone is continually being formed and resorbed. Normally, bone formation and resorption are closely
balanced. Osteoblasts (cells that make the organic matrix of bone and then mineralize bone) and
osteoclasts (cells that resorb bone) are regulated by parathyroid hormone  (PTH), calcitonin , estrogen ,
vitamin D , various cytokines, and other local factors such as prostaglandins.
Peak bone mass in men and women occurs around age 30. Men have higher bone mass than women.
(Previous data suggesting people with African ancestry achieve higher peak bone mass are currently
being questioned.) After achieving its peak, bone mass plateaus for approximately 10 years, during
which time bone formation approximately equals bone resorption. Beginning with menopause, bone
loss accelerates in women to approximately 2% a year for approximately 10 years and then the rate of
loss decelerates ( 1).
Osteoporotic bone loss aﬀects cortical and trabecular (cancellous) bone. Cortical thickness and the
number and size of trabeculae decrease, resulting in increased porosity. Trabeculae may be disrupted
or entirely absent. Trabecular bone loss occurs more rapidly than cortical bone loss because trabecular
bone is more porous and bone turnover is higher. However, loss of both types contributes to skeletal
fragility.
Fragility fracturesMSD MANUAL
Professional Version A fragility fracture is one that occurs after less trauma than might be expected to fracture a normal
bone. Fractures resulting from falls from a standing height or less, including falls out of bed, are typically
considered fragility fractures. The most common sites for fragility fractures are the following:
Spine ( thoracic and lumbar vertebral compression fractures —the most common
osteoporosis-related fracture)
Femoral neck
Greater trochanter
Distal radius
Other sites may include the proximal humerus  and pelvis .
Fractures at sites such as the nose, ribs, clavicle , patella, and metatarsals  are not considered
osteoporosis-related fractures.
Pathophysiology reference
1. Finkelstein JS, Brockwell SE, Mehta 

=== Osteoporosis - Bone, Joint, and Muscle Disorders - MSD  ===
HEALTHY LIVING
Osteoporosis
ByMarcy B. Bolster, MD, Harvard Medical School
Reviewed/Revised Jul 2025
Osteoporosis is a condition in which a decrease in the density of bones weakens
the bones, making breaks (fractures) likely.
Aging, estrogen  deﬁciency, low vitamin D  or calcium intake, and certain disorders can
decrease the amounts of the components that maintain bone density and strength.
Osteoporosis may not cause symptoms until a bone fracture occurs.
Fractures can occur with little or no force and may occur after a minor fall.
Although fractures are often painful, some fractures of the spine do not cause pain but can
cause deformities.
Doctors diagnose people at risk by testing their bone density.
Osteoporosis can usually be prevented and treated by managing risk factors, ensuring
adequate calcium and vitamin D  intake, engaging in weight-bearing exercise, and taking
bisphosphonates or other medications.
Bones contain minerals , including calcium  and phosphorus , which make them hard and dense. To
maintain bone density (or bone mass), the body requires an adequate supply of calcium and other
minerals and must produce the proper amounts of several hormones, such as parathyroid hormone ,
growth hormone, calcitonin , estrogen , and testosterone . An adequate supply of vitamin D  is needed to
absorb calcium from food and incorporate it into bones. Vitamin D  is absorbed from the diet and also
manufactured in the skin using sunlight.
So that bones can adjust to the changing demands placed on them, they are continuously broken down
and reformed. This process is known as remodeling . In this process, small areas of bone tissue are
continuously removed and new bone tissue is deposited. Remodeling aﬀects the shape and density of
the bones.
MSD MANUAL
Consumer Version Loss of Bone Density in Women
In women, bone density (or mass) progressively increases until about age 30, at which time
bones are at their strongest. After that, bone density gradually decreases. The decrease in bone
density accelerates after menopause, which occurs on average around age 51.
Because more bone is formed than is broken down in the young adult years, bones progressively
increase in density until about age 30, when they are at their strongest. After that, as breakdown
exceeds formation, bones slowly decrease in density. If the body is unable to maintain an adequate
amount of bone formation, bones continue to lose density and may become increasingly fragile,
eventually resulting in osteoporosis.
Types of Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis is more common in women. It aﬀects almost 20% (1 in 5) of women aged 50 and over and
almost 5% (1 in 20) of men aged 50 and over. Approximately 50% of postmenopausal women and 20%
of men over age 50 years will sustain an osteoporosis-related fracture in their lifetimes. There are two
main types of osteoporosis:
Primary osteoporosis : Occurs spontaneously
Secondary osteoporosis : Is caused by another disorder or by a medication
Primary osteoporosis 

